what we really enjoy about cruising is
being able to take our house and all its
creature comforts and go to an extremely
desolate location where we can have the
entire beach to ourselves and living off
the grid so we have dello setup that
once we have provisioned and fueled up
we can be off the grid for anywhere from
three to six months you know we make our
own power with solar and wind we make
our own water with a desalination plant
we have onboard and we have enough food
storage to support us for a long time
and so you know we can have a very low
impact on the environment we can move
the boat around with the power of the
wind and the weather and it's incredibly
sustainable and fulfilling way to travel
and live
over the course of the entire trip ten
years we've sailed Dulles $83,000 miles
which is the equivalent of circling the
Earth at the equator just over three
times we've visited six out of the seven
continents and sailed in every major
ocean in the world my name is Karen
Chapman and I am born and raised in
Sweden my name is Brian Chapman and I
was raised in Flagstaff Arizona this is
a little Sierra Abbott Troutman she is
six months old and she is a little sea
baby
she loves the ocean and she loves
sailboats huh Sierra yeah I'm originally
a software engineer but now I am a
full-time sailor and YouTube video maker
I knew nothing at all about sailing but
I read lots of books I read lots of
blogs and I came up with a four-year
plan basically at the end of that plan I
I sold everything I owned I sold my
house I bought a sailboat named Ellis
and I took off on what was supposed to
be an 18-month sailing trip headed
towards New Zealand I was studying
Landscape Architecture in Australia and
went on a backpacking trip to New
Zealand where I met Brian and he asked
me if I wanted to go sailing for the
weekend and that was nine years ago now
Wow yeah I never left I had never sailed
before and it was absolutely
life-changing I fell in love with it
straightaway
and of course fell in love with Brian
sue
welcome to our home Dulles
she is a 53-foot sloop rig ketch which
means that she has two masts and 1/4 day
and right now we're in the cockpit of
Dulles which is like the brain of the
boat is how I like to think of it this
is our navigation and steering station
what I like about it is the helm is
super protected so we can sit here we
can drive here we have an excellent view
and you can stay safe you can stay dry
you can stay very comfortable even when
the conditions are wet and completely
handle all the sails and drive the boat
back here we have some more sail
controls all in the cockpit so to sail
Delos we actually never have to leave
this area which makes her a very safe
boat when we're sailing short-handed and
when the weather gets bad or you're
sailing at nighttime you don't want to
leave the cockpit and risk falling
overboard so it's a very cool area when
we're not sailing this is also where we
spend most of our time so this happens
to be really our outside porch our
living room and everything sort of all
rolled into one
so welcoming to our kitchen this is
really a one-man kitchen or a 1/1 Lane
kitchen he's not really big enough for
two people and it's kind of narrow which
makes it really good whoever on the
ocean passage and it's really rough so
you can hold yourself in you also have
this so you can clip yourself in so in
case it is really rough
you don't go fine across the whole boat
we have everything that you'd find in a
normal kitchen I would say we have you
know it's pool sinks we have an
induction stove which is very very nice
so we don't have to worry about propane
and stuff we have just a normal little
oven and it's all kind of attached to a
gimbal system so when we're healing this
stove can swing with pretty good force
and we won't lose
dinner on the floor here we have a
toaster which is a bit of a luxury and
we have some fresh potatoes onions and
stuff like that things that don't need
to be refrigerated it's kind of like a
puzzle
so everything like the pots and the pans
have its place and if you put it in the
wrong place the things won't fit in
there we also have a cabinet here that
is a bunch of random things and it kind
of just extends down you never know
really what to find down there it's a
bit of a surprise here we have you know
our bowls and our plates and our sauces
you know it's nonstop by three this is
our fridge yeah for being a bowl I would
say it's a very nice fridge most fridges
on boats are top loading and I have not
heard one single good thing about a top
loading fridge so he's very nice when it
has a door and you can have everything
like organized in there well not a thing
that I'm extremely happy about
it's our washing machine it's just a
smallest one that you can find on the
market basically but we do run it every
second day to do the diapers for Sierra
because we use cloth diapers on her to
save a lot of trash and I would not want
to wash it by hand so I'm very happy
about this feature another feature is
her little chair that we have strapped
in right here so she can sit here and
eat and be part of you know like us
making dinner and stuff like that this
is the navigation communication and
electronic station on Delos this is our
single sideband radio so this is a ham
radio and it allows us to communicate
via voice and also an analog modem via
email or thousands of miles so if all
the communication systems ever go down
and Armageddon happens we can still talk
to other people out there we have our
VHF radio that allows us to communicate
it like
close distances basically line-of-sight
boat instruments this gives us our speed
and the depth and then down here this is
maybe the craziest thing that most boats
aren't going to have this is the server
rack that I installed for the satellite
communication system so this is what
allows us to basically beam Internet to
us from space anywhere in the world we
have a couple of safety devices so fire
extinguisher and this isn't EPIRBs a
stands for emergency position indicating
radio beacon so for ever sailing in the
middle of the ocean and we have a
life-threatening situation the boat is
on fire the boat is sinking something
like that we can activate this by
pulling this cord in the back it has a
built-in GPS and it transmits our
position and our boat name and who we
are - is satellite in orbit and then
it's picked up by the closest maritime
Authority and they will route like a
Coast Guard if they're available or a
container ship or a cargo ship or
something to try and help us so over
here this is our water gauge so it's
super simple
we carry a thousand liters of water on
Delos right now we have 500 liters and
when we fill our pickup it's enough
water to last us for almost a month
this water maker is capable of making
200 liters or approximately 50 US
gallons an hour so this is our living
room this is basically where we do most
of the things when we're inside of the
boat you know eating we work here you
know lounge around you can fit a lot of
people which is very nice and we have a
lot of crew on board one other thing
that I really love with dolls is that we
have so much food storage this is all
food and stuff and if you
here inside the cell phone we have
freezers it's a bit empty right now
because we haven't shopped in about a
month but it is really really cool to
have freezes like this because if we
catch really big fish or if we're going
off grid for a long time you know it's
important to have some good food frozen
so we have two of those on each side of
the sofa on this side right now is
Sierra's Plenty area as she's getting
bigger it's been a bit challenging with
her starting to climb over things and
stuff so we have sown a little they
don't like to call it caged but it's a
playpen so we can close this up she can
still be part of the action because you
can see through it we can leave her in
there if we need to do something like
change the sails or something is going
on where she needs to be put in a safe
place this is where we put her do you
think she likes it yeah so if you lift
this up this canned food milks all the
floors really lifts up and it's deep
builder so all the canned foods we name
them all so you can easily see what's
inside and we take the labels off to
prevent the spread of cockroaches so
that's the procedure but it works well
and we don't have a cockroach's right
now which is very nice one of the things
that I had never thought about when I
first moved on to Delos 9 years ago was
when you go off grid and you run out of
food that's it
there's no more getting more oh you're
out there there is no store close to you
and I remember when we first sailed up
into like the islands in Indonesia and
it was very remote and we ran out of
tomatoes we ran out of eggs we ran out
of all fresh vegetables and we were
eating for the last really, month
we were eating cans, it was a eye opener for me.
her for me we spent most of our time
anchored about 10% is sailing and 90% is
a tanker on average we sail about 8,000
nautical miles per year and when we're
at anchor we tend to try and stay out of
actual port ports like places like
marinas where there's a lot of boats and
restaurants and bars like it's cool
every once in a while but number one you
spend a lot of money in places like that
and number two we tend to like being on
remote desolate places our plans for the
you really depend on the weather we
travel by the wind and the currents of
the ocean and so looking at the seasons
ahead of us is incredibly important both
for our safety but also for our comfort
we've had a
sixty people fail on bellos over the
last ten years it's been a lot and it's
been absolutely incredible right now
it's only me and Bryan and Sierra which
is awesome it's perfect yeah it's very
very nice I think it's safe to say that
we've actually never been anywhere that
we didn't want to go back to you
there's always something special that
you can find about the place of the
people
this is our bedroom in the back of the
boat in the stern the two people it's
pretty perfect we can even stand up we
have a little desk which is really nice
to sit back here and work a little bit
we have a pretty big bed I would say
he's not huge but it's nice and comfy
and cushy if it gets really hot we have
two fans so this is basically how we
kind of stay cool back here we never
really run the a/c
unless or in a marina which is not very
often we also have a separate bathroom
also called the head on the boat which
is kind of weird but this so in here we
have everything you have in a toilet I
think but just compact this is where you
do your business and we have an electric
motor so if you press this it basically
fills with soft water from the ocean and
then either pumps it straight out or we
also have a holding tank so depending on
where we are if we're out in the ocean
it just goes up and if we're in
somewhere where is a lot of boats and
stuff we keep it in a holding tank we
have pretty deep sinks which is really
nice because I do do some hand washing
so it's really good to hand wash stuff
here and it can also act as a bath for
Sierra which II was a little smaller we
kind of have a combined so it's not a
separate shower so you had the toilet
there and then here you use clothespins
baby shower in there well this is our
closet it's not very big but it's pretty
perfect for us
and I've actually gone through a lot of
our clothes and just got rid of a bunch
of stuff and just have the necessities
so this is all Brian's clothes on this
side and all of my clothes on that side
but we do have some smaller cabinets to
like here I have my clothes so to
maximize even more storage things that
we don't get to like that often is under
this bed so under here is all of our
kind of store away stuff that long
long-term storage so we have some extra
sheets some cold weather stuff cold
weather clothes and it's quite a lot of
good storage down here so I'm gonna have
a lot of people on the boat it's very
nice to work back here too and then you
pull this little chair out you can sit
back here and do your computer things
which is not very very nice this is a
very very good safety feature on Delos
and this door is actually a watertight
bulkhead so if we would get a hole in
our house in the boat back here we could
close this door and this whole area back
here would be separated from the front
of the boat so this could be filled up
with water and we would still float so
we have a few of these on Delos and it's
crucial if you get a hole in the boat
and so you don't sink basically we have
the forward cabin you can sleep three
people up here if you're very very good
friends
otherwise it's good for one person or
two people to sleep on one side and then
you kind of have this other area on the
side that's a little sofa or where you
can put your stuff and right now because
it's only me and Brian on board we have
this as our kind of workroom we do
sewing up here this is also our diaper
drying station right now because the
wind flow in here is awesome so it
drives them really fast and up here we
also have a second toilet which is very
very nice to have on board in case one
of them fails which happens quite often
actually so this is a same as the one in
the back and it works pretty much
exactly the same we earn money by making
YouTube videos yeah that's pretty much
it we have a project and it's called the
Delos project and it's 100% supported by
what we refer to as the Delos tribe
which are the people that watch our
videos and we make some money with
things like YouTube ad revenue and
affiliate links but by far the majority
of the support comes from crowdfunding
on patreon where people that like the
videos and get something out of them
support them by giving us a few dollars
every time we produce a video yeah it
wasn't always like that though like for
the first four years almost five years
of the trip we were stopping to work and
so we would sale and then we'd run out
of money and then we would stop to work
wherever we happen to be we do random
things like I would do remote software
consulting we'd roll burritos we'd flip
burgers work in hospitality whatever it
took to to continue sailing for another
season how much it costs to live on a
boat I've met people sailing around the
world a family of five spending about
$1,000 a month which is probably at the
low end of the budget
Karen and I and Sierra to live and sail
on Delos we spend about $2,500 a month
and that's including like our food our
provisions fuel for the boat insurance
visa fees some things like that what
it's not including is the actual price
of the boat so if you don't have enough
money to buy a boat outright you're
gonna have a mortgage or owe money and
then that's gonna add on top
yeah Brian spent a lot of time working
on the boat yeah it's too you know
imagine taking your house
and shaking it up and put it into a wet
saltwater corrosive environment and then
moving it thousands of miles away from
the nearest hardware store or anybody
who could help you fix anything and
that's a little bit what sailing around
the world is like and so I spent a lot
of time maintaining the boat in fact
I've needed to become an electrician
I've needed to become a plumber diesel
mechanic toilet repairman air
conditioning and refrigeration
specialists and everything in between
it's pretty common for me to spend at
least a few full days a month just
working on keeping the book in shape it
can be incredibly expensive if you don't
do your own work and so I figure our
maintenance budget on Delos is about
$700 a month averaged over the entire
year and if we were not doing the work
ourselves I think you could easily
triple that amount just paying somebody
a technician to come out and fix things
all right now we're gonna take a look at
the engine room which is really the
heart of Delos and it lives in this cool
little door this waterproof door in the
bottom of our cockpit so we just want to
put it up like that and then we have a
ladder
when you climb down here and once you
get down here it has everything in it
that really runs the boat so on this
side we have a fuel tank it's 600 liters
of fuel and that's enough to last us
three to four months this is our engine
so when there's no wind this is the main
diesel engine that we use to propel the
boat this is our generator so this is an
8 kilowatt AC generator runs off diesel
fuel and when we need to charge the
batteries or if you don't have enough
solar or we need to do something that
requires a lot of power we can flip this
guy on this is our hot water heater so
we have hot water showers on the boat
which is actually quite a luxury I don't
know if you can see down here this is
our dive compressor so we run this off
of the generator and it's what fills our
scuba bottles so we're totally
self-sufficient for diving which is
totally cool we have the desalinator
which turns saltwater into fresh
drinking water which allows us to
basically stay at sea indefinitely
without that we'd have to go into port
like every few weeks for water and
battery chargers electronics and all
sorts of cool stuff but it's a this is
this is really my office so having a
baby on the boat is absolutely
incredible and extremely challenging at
the same time yeah if you can imagine
you know maintaining and sailing a boat
is a full-time job and then having a
child is also a full-time job and so we
basically have two full-time jobs well I
think somebody
Wow so this is where Ciara sleeps she
has a little beach tent as a safe place
to sleep in here
and right next to it we changed the
diapers right in here above Sierra we
have all our medical stuff everything
you can think about antibiotic if you
have a really bad sprain if you need to
so some wound up we have pretty much
everything EpiPens so under here we have
eight 100 amp hour batteries it's a 24
volt system so this is I guess you could
call this our back porch really we have
a nice big area on the deck where we can
sort of lounge and relax back here we
have some solar panels we actually have
1400 watts of solar power on Delos which
allows us to power the entire boat
freezers fridges all the electronics
everything off of solar and also wind
power so we have two wind generators up
here they each produce 400 watts of
power so when the wind is blowing those
guys are spinning and it's pumping in
power
this giant dish right here is our
Internet so this is a gimballed
satellite dome and it allows us to get
broadband speed internet anywhere we go
which given our line of work is
absolutely fantastic now let's go check
out the floor deck of Delos so this is
Delos
mainmast and where the mizzen is 52 feet
high the main mast is 66 feet high sits
over a six story building so it's pretty
high this is our mainsail it's on a
roller furling and these are electric
motors with gearboxes that actually
control how the sail comes out and how
the sail rolls out of the mast
that's what's controlled by those
buttons in the cockpit so we never have
to leave the cockpit to come up front
and reef the sails or put them in or put
them out so it's a super cool system you
really can't be scared of heights when
you live on a boat otherwise
go to the top of the mast you'll be in
trouble
you know when you're in a house and a
storm comes by and the wind and the rain
starts it could be a very cozy
experience on a boat it can sometimes be
a very harrowing experience because you
know your ear houses is in peril you
know just the other night we were here
and we woke up at midnight because we
felt this sudden thud and the wind had
shifted just enough to push Delos into
shallow water so instead of floating
happily at her anchor she was now
bouncing off the bottom of the ocean
which is a terrible terrible scenario to
be in so here we are midnight middle of
the night winds blowin it's raining and
we have to get dressed we have to go
outside and we have to pick up the
anchor and we have to move the boat to
deeper water and so that's that's that's
a challenge you're always sort of living
on guard and on the edge for situations
like that
so because we live on a boat things are
a little bit different than a house in
this locker we have survival supplies
for worst-case scenarios so here we have
a gigantic manual pump so if we start
taking on water we start pumping for our
lives literally here we have a life raft
so this is a six man life raft it's Otto
inflating if anything were to happen we
pull the life raft out of the boat we
throw it over we tie it on and it has
enough supplies to last for I think
seven days for six people
we have spare water so we have 40 litres
of fresh drinking water in case anything
happens to our main water supply and we
also have a ditch kit and so a ditch kit
contains all the supplies that you would
want to take with you if you abandon
ship so we have spare VHF radio we have
flashlights we have food we have even
more water in here we have fishing gear
we have signal mirrors if worst-case
scenario were to come we take all this
stuff out and then we would abandon ship
with it and it would allow us to
hopefully be rescued and survive long
enough for somebody to find us
I absolutely love living on a boat it's
extremely special and I think one of the
things I love the most is that you are
so connected with the weather and nature
you literally live outside all the time
we've sailed in the tropics for quite a
number of years and we're really looking
forward to exploring some places that
are different for us so we are gonna
sail up to Greenland and up to the
Arctic and play around in the ice for a
little bit this summer it feels a little
bit terrifying in fact when I think
about it it puts like that that knot in
my stomach and throughout this trip over
the years every time that we've made a
decision that sort of puts that that
knot in our bellies it's turned out to
be an incredible experience so we're
gonna put a heater on Delos we're gonna
set the boat up for cold weather pan
we're gonna head up north and see what
it's like please share this video if you
liked it also be sure to subscribe to
exploring alternatives and check out our
playlists for more stories like this
thanks for watching